Introduction
This subscription guide provides an overview of Red Hat® Application Services subscriptions, their
benefits and entitlements, and Red Hat policies covering the use of these subscriptions.
Red Hat uses the term “Application Services” to refer to capabilities that provide customers with
tools to design and develop cloud-native architectures and applications for hybrid cloud execution.
This definition reflects the evolution of middleware to the cloud, with specific capabilities to
run better in orchestrated (Kube and container) environments.
In addition to supporting traditional self-managed Application Services deployments, Red Hat offers
capabilities as managed cloud services to provide customer choice in operational responsibilities and
accelerate time to value. This guide covers subscription considerations for self-managed Application
Services products. Other Red Hat products, including platforms and managed cloud services, are
introduced here for context, but subscription considerations for those products on their own are not
detailed in this guide.
Red Hat has worked over time to increase the value and flexibility of these subscriptions as we
continue to evolve our portfolio of application services products for hybrid cloud operation.
This subscription guide will help you better understand:
Red Hat Application Services products and the range of benefits included with each
product subscription.
Red Hat policies that permit broad deployment of subscriptions across on-premise, private
cloud, public cloud, and hosted cloud environments. Specific use cases are detailed herein.
How to determine the optimal licensing strategy across any customer lifecycle stage and any
chosen deployment location.
Specific use cases for integrating Red Hat Application Services with Red Hat Enterprise Linux®
or Red Hat OpenShift® platforms or together with partner and 3rd-party hardware, software,
and services.
General subscription benefits for all products
The many benefits to purchasing a Red Hat subscription include:
Predictability. Subscriptions are offered on an annual or multiyear basis and include access to
new versions at no additional cost, so there are no large upfront license fees or hidden costs.
Flexibility. Red Hat’s application services subscriptions provide value through the entire
application lifecycle—from development through production—and allow a variety of deployment
options from on-premise to public cloud.
Integrated and certified enterprise platforms. You have access to enterprise open source
application services platforms, in source code and binary forms, along with enterprise product
documentation specific to each product release.
Regular upgrades and updates. These include enhancements, new features, new platform
certifications, and access to the latest defect and security fixes.
Security response. Subscriptions include Red Hat’s industry-recognized security response
process to help you proactively address potential security issues in their environments.
2
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Long-term stability. Each Red Hat Application Services product has a defined multiyear product
lifecycle with strict update policies that maintain long-term application stability and compatibility.
World-class technical support. Open source Application Services experts provide unlimited
incident support with 24x7 coverage up with 1-hour response time for your critical issues.
Red Hat Customer Portal access. This is a single portal for accessing all of the benefits of a
Red Hat subscription, including enterprise software delivery, product updates, critical issue
notifications, knowledge base access, and case management.
Partner certifications. Know that your enterprise application services are fully certified by
leading Red Hat independent software vendor (ISV) partners.
Legal assurance. The Red Hat Open Source Assurance program safeguards your development
and deployment of open source solutions from legal harm.
Red Hat Application Services products
This guide covers the following Red Hat Application Services products and bundle subscriptions.
See Table 1 below for descriptions.
 Products and bundles available for new subscriptions:
Red Hat Application Foundations
Red Hat Runtimes
Red Hat Service Interconnect
Products and bundles available for renewals:
Red Hat Integration
Red Hat JBoss® Enterprise Application Platform (JBoss EAP)
Red Hat JBoss Web Server
Red Hat Data Grid
Red Hat AMQ (AMQ streams, AMQ broker)
Red Hat Fuse
Red Hat 3scale API Management
Transitioned to IBM
Further information: IBM Expands Business Automation Portfolio with Open Source Process and
Decision Automation
Red Hat Process Automation
Red Hat Process Automation Manager
Red Hat Decision Manager
Notes:
The descriptions in this document also cover all program-specific or route-specific versions
of the bundles and products listed above. Examples of these are:
3
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
“For Red Hat OpenShift” or “for Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated” product descriptions.
“Extended life cycle support add-ons,” if applicable.
“Certified Cloud Service Provider, embedded, L3-only support partners, OEM.”
Any legacy products that are still supported—such as Red Hat JBoss Fuse Service Works—
will also follow these general rules until their respective end-of-life dates.
What products are included with each subscription?
Red Hat Application Services “bundled subscriptions” help you deploy a choice of one or more
products on the same physical location or to separate hardware units, provided that each unit
running part or all of the product is counted toward the subscription total.
Table 1 shows the complete list of products and selected components included with each
subscription. See component details pages for a comprehensive list of components. Table 1
outlines which software is eligible for support or deployment in a manner consistent with the
“production purposes” definition in Appendix 1 of Red Hat license agreements.
Table 1. Subscription products and components
Products available for
new subscriptions
Included components
Red Hat Application
Foundations
All products and components included as part of Red Hat Runtimes
streams for Apache Kafka
Red Hat build of Debezium
Red Hat 3scale API Management
Red Hat build of Apicurio Registry
Red Hat build of Apache Camel
Red Hat Runtimes Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
Red Hat Data Grid
Red Hat JBoss Web Server
Red Hat build of Quarkus
AMQ broker
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform expansion pack
Red Hat build of Keycloak
Single sign-on
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Migration toolkit for Applications
Migration toolkit for Runtimes
4
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Products available for
new subscriptions
Included components
Red Hat Service
Interconnect
Red Hat Service Interconnect
1 Red Hat Fuse 7 reached end of life in June 2024 and Red Hat Fuse Extended Life Cycle Support Add-Ons are available
until June 2026. Customers should migrate to Red Hat Build of Apache Camel.
Products available for
renewals
Included components
Red Hat Integration Red Hat Fuse1
Red Hat build of Apache Camel
streams for Apache Kafka
Red Hat 3scale API Management
Red Hat build of Debezium
Red Hat build of Apicurio Registry,
All products and components included as part of Red Hat Runtimes
Red Hat JBoss Enterprise
Application Platform
(JBoss EAP)
Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform
Red Hat JBoss Web Server
Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform expansion pack
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Migration toolkit for applications
Migration toolkit for runtimes
Red Hat JBoss Web Server Red Hat JBoss Web Server
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Migration toolkit for applications
Migration toolkit for runtimes
Red Hat Data Grid Red Hat Data Grid
Red Hat JBoss EAP (restricted for running Red Hat Data Grid only)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat AMQ Red Hat AMQ (clients, broker, streams for Apache Kafka)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
5
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Red Hat Fuse1 Red Hat Fuse1
Red Hat build of Apache Camel
AMQ broker
Red Hat JBoss EAP
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Red Hat 3scale API
Management
Red Hat 3scale API Management (Admin Portal, Developer Portal,
API gateway)
Red Hat JBoss Core
Services Collection
Apache HTTP server
Internet information services (IIS) connector, iPlanet connector,
Single sign-on
Apache Commons Jsvc
Discontinued products Included components
(note that components may still be available
in new or renewal products above)
Red Hat Application
Services portfolio
(formerly Red Hat
Middleware portfolio)
Red Hat JBoss EAP
Red Hat JBoss Web Server
Cloud-native Red Hat Runtimes
Red Hat Data Grid
AMQ broker (only)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Single sign-on
Red Hat Fuse1
Red Hat 3scale API Management
Red Hat build of Debezium
Red Hat OpenShift Service Registry
Red Hat Process Automation Manager
Red Hat Decision Manager
6
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Discontinued products Included components
(note that components may still be available
in new or renewal products above)
Red Hat Process Automation Red Hat Process Automation Manager
Red Hat Decision Manager
Red Hat JBoss EAP
Red Hat build of OptaPlanner (formerly Business Optimizer)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK,
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Red Hat Decision Manager
(formerly Red Hat JBoss
BRMS)
Red Hat JBoss EAP
Red Hat Decision Manager
Red Hat build of OptaPlanner (formerly Business Optimizer)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Red Hat Process Automation
Manager (formerly Red Hat
JBoss BPM Suite)
Red Hat JBoss EAP
Red Hat Decision Manager
Red Hat Process Automation Manager
Red Hat build of OptaPlanner (formerly Business Optimizer)
Red Hat build of OpenJDK
Red Hat JBoss Core Services Collection
Subscription rules
Layered products
Layered products include multiple underlying products, which are intended to be used together.
Examples include:
Red Hat Fuse includes Red Hat AMQ and Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform.
Red Hat OpenShift includes single sign-on, Red Hat build of Keycloak and Red Hat build
of Quarkus.
These products and components—which are included in a single SKU—are typically used together
with or in support of the named product.
In some cases, they can be used standalone on separate hardware. However, this requires excess
unused capacity and often results in a more expensive use of a layered product.
7
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
For example, the expectation for a customer buying 64 cores of Red Hat Fuse is that the included
JBoss EAP will be used as the runtime for Red Hat Fuse. If a customer is only using 48 cores, for
example, they might want to repurpose the 16 unused cores for JBoss EAP-only workloads. This is an
edge case, but it is fine if the customer chooses to do this. However, they should acknowledge that
these are effectively very expensive JBoss EAP cores.
The most important point is that a layered product cannot be deconstructed into numerous
individual subscriptions. For example, a 64-core subscription of Red Hat Fuse is not equivalent to
independent 64-core subscriptions for each included product or component. It provides 64 total
cores, upon which one or all products and subcomponents can be deployed.
In select cases—for example, single sign-on in Red Hat OpenShift—the product or component has
a restricted use case and cannot be deployed separately from Red Hat OpenShift, regardless of
whether excess capacity of the named product exists.
For the full list of product inclusions, see Table 1.
Product bundles
A product bundle is a subscription entitlement that offers a single pool of cores intended to be
shared across multiple products, components, and use cases. Your usage could be of several
products together—for example, Red Hat OpenShift and Red Hat Application Foundations bundle
has a combined installation, identity management, and user experience. You might also be using
individual products (e.g., Red Hat OpenShift, Red Hat build of Camel, Red Hat 3scale API
Management, etc.) independently for product-specific use cases. It does not matter which product
or combination of products is deployed at any time, as long as the combined core count does not
exceed the total number of paid subscription cores. These cores may be used on different CPUs or
on any mix of on-premise, private cloud, or public cloud environments.
Cluster editions
Application Services products with cluster editions are designed to provide consistency and flexible
deployment across the entire Red Hat OpenShift environment. Red Hat recognizes that not all
components will be used on each Red Hat OpenShift core across the entire environment and offers
favorable pricing for cluster editions to provide customers with a cost-effective and flexible
option to deploy any included component at any time during the term of the subscription on Red Hat
OpenShift. The total core count for cluster editions must equal the total core count for Red Hat
OpenShift during the entire subscription term. See Appendix 1 for details.
Bare-metal editions
Products with bare-metal editions may only be deployed machines using Red Hat OpenShift
bare-metal products.
Core bands
Red Hat Application Services products are sold in units of “core bands” of 2-core and 4-core units. In
addition, some products may be available for partner-embedded use in single core multiples.
8
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Application development lifecycle
Appendix 1 of Red Hat’s license agreement defines 2 use case modes when determining whether to
charge application services subscription fees for units running in a specific use case: developer
purposes and production purposes. Any units running for development purposes are not counted and
do not require subscription fees for each unit. Any units running for production purposes are counted
and do require subscription fees for each unit.
Table 2. Description and appendix 1 licensing requirements
Lifecycle stage Cores
counted?
Single-user for development purposes
Access by a single developer on a single-user laptop or desktop, running
single-user instances on the laptop or a connected server.
Appendix 1: “Development purposes” means using the software for
development-related tasks that are performed by a single user acting in
a standalone mode, such as:
(a) An individual developer writing software code.
(b) A single user performing prototyping or quality assurance testing,
where neither involved any form of automated testing, multiuser testing,
or multiclient testing.
(c) A Red Hat partner user demonstrating software or hardware that runs
with or on the software.
No
Other development use cases, or quality assurance, load test, staging,
production, or hot or active disaster recovery (DR)
A developer-focused project environment shared with more than a single person;
continuous integration or functional testing environments; business users testing
early prerelease versions of the software; also called user acceptance testing, or
staging, or preproduction environments.
Appendix 1: “Production purposes” means using the software:
(a) In a production environment.
(b) For general use of live data or applications for a purpose other
than development.
(c) For any automated quality assurance or testing, multiuser quality assurance
or testing, or multiclient quality assurance testing.
(d) For hot or active disaster recovery backup instances.
Yes
9
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Lifecycle stage Cores
counted?
Warm or cold disaster recovery
You may transfer, migrate, or otherwise move software subscriptions, provided
you are accountable for the number and types of units associated with the
software subscriptions.
No
Types of disaster recovery and how they are counted
Hot disaster recovery
Cores in hot disaster recovery are counted. Hot DR systems are running concurrently
and are ready to receive traffic quickly in the event of a disaster within the primary
environment. When deploying Red Hat Application Services deployments in DR
environments, virtual or physical cores across hot DR or failover environments should
be included as part of the total core count.
Warm disaster recovery
Cores in warm disaster recovery are not counted. Warm DR environments are already
configured with hardware representing a reasonable facsimile of the production environment.
To restore service, restoration of the most recent backups must be completed before service
can be resumed.
Cold disaster recovery
Cores in cold disaster recovery are not counted. With cold DR, if a disaster were to
occur and primary systems are no longer available, primary subscription entitlements that
are no longer in use can be transferred to cold DR environments (making cold DR a temporary
production environment). The expectation is these systems will never run concurrently
with the primary cores and rarely receive updates, if at all.
Product lifecycle
A critical aspect to any Red Hat Application Services subscription is the support policy and product
lifecycle. This policy is included in Appendix 1 and is considered a legally binding document. It contains
information on our software releases and support and should be studied in detail.
Products and certain subcomponents each have a lifecycle.
To receive the full benefits of your subscription, Red Hat requires that customers:
1. Run a supported major version of the product.
2. Run the latest minor release in a major release stream (e.g., JBoss EAP 7.2).
3. Purchase Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) subscriptions in addition to the base product
if the customer is running a product version in either ELS-1 or ELS-2.
10
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Note that customers frequently sign long-term deals with Red Hat. These deals do not supersede the
published dates of our product lifecycle. For example, a customer may sign a 5-year contract. This
does not give them the ability to “choose a version” and run it for 5 years with no changes. It is likely
that a customer with a long-term subscription will need to either migrate to a newer major version or
pay for the appropriate ELS add-on during the course of their contract with Red Hat.
Extended Life Cycle Support
Application Services ELS is an additional product lifecycle support phase that immediately follows
the end of a product major version’s maintenance support window. During this phase, Red Hat lowers
its overall support obligations for the product version and will only deliver certain bug fixes. Most
active Red Hat Application Services products have at least 1 major version eligible for ELS. The full list
is available on the public product lifecycle page. Detailed discussion is available on the support policy
and product lifecycle page.
Product-specific supported configurations
Each Red Hat Application Services product has a specific list of supported and tested configurations.
“Tested” means that the specific versions of the product, Java™ Virtual Machine (JVM), platform
or operating system (OS), and hardware listed have been tested by Red Hat and are performing
properly. “Supported” means that Red Hat will provide support for the products (e.g., Red Hat
Runtimes) running on untested JVMs, but may require the customer to reproduce an issue (at the
customer’s expense, if applicable) on a tested platform or involve a 3rd party to resolve the issue
if an untested platform or hardware configuration is suspected to be causing the issue.
Red Hat targets the most in-demand hardware and software configurations, but cannot test every
possible combination. Red Hat offers clear support guidance for using our products with untested
3rd-party environments.
Using Red Hat Application Services products with 3rd-party environments
You may choose to deploy your Red Hat Application Services subscriptions in environments
integrated with 3rd-party software or hardware or a public cloud provider. When this happens,
Red Hat’s Support team will initially follow the support guidelines listed on each product’s supported
configurations page. Additionally, Red Hat will offer a level of support for untested environments.
Details of these support policies are available in this Red Hat Customer Portal article on middleware
products deployed in 3rd-party environments.
Additional guidance can be found here:
Red Hat Container Support Policy
Support for Red Hat JBoss Middleware Containers
How are JBoss products supported when used in container images?
Red Hat Customer Portal
Confirmed Stateside Support (for U.S.-based customers)
Red Hat Support is a global effort that requires input from experts around the world. However,
some customers require their support to be only from U.S. citizens on U.S. soil. Confirmed Stateside
Support (CSS) was created to provide that. For example, customers running Red Hat-supported
11
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
products in Amazon Web Services (AWS) GovCloud require this due to possible exposure of
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) data and the ensuing legal ramifications.
CSS has costs associated with meeting these special requirements. It necessitates an off-site
facility with a dedicated phone line, select U.S. citizen staff with in-depth ITAR training, a specialized
workflow, a separate ticketing portal, and many legal considerations to protect sensitive data. The
price of CSS reflects the expenses covered by Red Hat to provide these benefits.
We understand that, in many cases, customers take special care to remove ITAR-sensitive data in
support cases. However, the drastic legal ramifications for Red Hat handling ITAR data without CSS
outweighs our willingness to take any chances. Red Hat’s Confirmed Stateside Support offering is
designed with our information-security-conscious customers in mind and is required for customers
with Red Hat products on AWS GovCloud. Contact your Red Hat sales channel for pricing or
implementation details.
Application Services entitlements and how to count units and use
SKU descriptions may include GPU along with CPU and vCPU for the purpose of sizing/counting
parity with other product SKUs, however actual product/component operating requirements need
to be considered when determining where a component can be deployed.
Application Services—everywhere
Red Hat Application Services subscription licensing is very flexible. Subscriptions are licensed and
supported across multiple OS and hardware platforms (see supported and tested configurations
page) and across any mix of on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud deployment environments.
Subscription entitlements also provide value throughout the full application development and
deployment lifecycle.
Core edition subscription licensing flexibility eliminates the need to purchase products for a
particular deployment environment (e.g., public cloud), OS or container platform (e.g., Red Hat
Enterprise Linux or Red Hat OpenShift), or lifecycle phase (e.g., development). No additional
purchases are needed when you move from any one of these environments to another during the
term of a subscription. However, keep in mind that cluster and bare-metal edition subscriptions are
limited to deployment on Red Hat OpenShift. See the “Subscription Rules” section of this document
for details.
Subscription flexibility is further highlighted by packaging of multiple components for complete
cloud-native architectures into Red Hat Application Foundations and Red Hat Runtimes. These
products deliver the ability to flexibly deploy included components and the ability to change the
usage combination of licensed components at any time during the term of a subscription.
These subscriptions entitle a shared pool of units that can be used across the eligible and
included components.
Deployment options include public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services, IBM Cloud,
Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Alibaba Cloud. This provides a flexible and holistic application
environment across physical, virtual, and cloud deployments.
Cores for required external supporting capabilities, such as databases, should not be included in
counts. Additionally, cores used for the following component-specific operations may be excluded
from counts:
Zookeeper for streams for Apache Kafka
12
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
KRaft controller only nodes for streams for Apache Kafka (cores used for mixed nodes
will be charged)
API gateway instances for API Management
Red Hat Application Services subscriptions are to be counted using the same vCPU-to-core ratio
that is used by the cloud provider to handle routine hyperthreading. This is commonly 2 vCPUs per
core, but may vary with specialized processor hardware configurations. Each vendor describes this
conversion. For an example, consult the AWS guide.
Non-OpenShift use guidelines
The following principles apply to noncontainerized subscription deployments, such as application
services on Red Hat Enterprise Linux on a physical server in a datacenter.
Physical cores, virtual cores
Physical cores are our standard unit of measurement.
Physical cores may be deployed across multiple CPU sockets, CPUs, or servers.
Virtual cores, or “virtual CPUS (vCPUs),” are physical cores used for individual virtual
environments or virtual machines (VMs).
Virtual cores and vCPUs can be counted, but need to align with physical cores.
If physical cores can be counted when deploying in a virtualized environment, then these
units will be counted.
If you do not know which or how many physical cores in a CPU socket-pair use our software,
then we charge for all of the cores in the CPU socket-pair.
You need to count all cores or vCPUs in a CPU socket-pair unless they are using known
core-limiting software that limits the use of our software within that socket-pair.
For auto-scaling configurations, the subscription cores should be set to the limits of cores
that may be used to ensure that the entitlement provides sufficient coverage.
Virtual machines
You can create a variable-sized VM within a CPU socket-pair. VMs are built atop underlying
physical cores. We count the physical cores that contain the VM.
If use of our software is limited to a VM that only uses a subset of physical cores in the
socket-pair, then we only count those physical cores associated with the VM.
You need to count all cores or vCPUs within a VM unless you are using known core-limiting
software that limits the use of our software within that VM.
Hyperthreading, vCPUs
Hyperthreading creates more, but smaller, vCPUs across a fixed number of physical cores.
The vCPU has become a common logical unit of measurement in cloud-based platforms.
With noncompute intensive apps, customers can take advantage of the larger number of
hyperthreaded vCPUs without expanding the physical core use.
13
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Hyperthreading does not change counting rules. Red Hat will continue to charge for the
underlying physical cores, and when hyperthreading is actively used for Red Hat products,
vCPUs can be counted using the common (2) vCPU-to-(1) core ratio.
If you only know the vCPU count and not the physical core count, we will allow 2:1 if
hyperthreading is being used. We will count 1:1 if hyperthreading is not in use.
On Red Hat OpenShift (containerized deployment) use guidelines
Unit counting on container platforms, such as Red Hat OpenShift, has some differences in
comparison with noncontainer deployments.
Cluster editions
Application Services products with cluster editions are designed to provide consistency and
flexible deployment across the entire Red Hat OpenShift environment. Red Hat recognizes that
not all components will be used on each Red Hat OpenShift core across the entire environment
and offers favorable pricing for cluster editions to provide customers with a cost-effective and
flexible option to deploy any included component at any time during the term of the subscription
on Red Hat OpenShift. The total core count for cluster editions must equal the total core count for
Red Hat OpenShift during the entire subscription term. See Appendix 1 for details.
Bare-metal editions
Products with bare-metal editions may only be deployed machines using Red Hat OpenShift
bare-metal products.
What is the same as noncontainer deployment?
The vCPU/core remains the countable unit for entitlements and license tracking. Container
platforms measure pods and nodes within a cluster. But, these are user-defined groupings
of vCPUs/cores.
For auto-scaling configurations, the subscription cores should be set to the limits of cores
that may be used to ensure that the entitlement provides sufficient coverage.
What is different from noncontainer deployment?
Red Hat OpenShift (or the container platform) automates the starting and stopping of
application services workload instances. This simplifies Red Hat’s entitlements counting
policy to charging only for cores or vCPUs that are concurrently running at any given time
during the subscription period.
Cores used for Red Hat component and product operators do not count against the
subscription limits.
It does not matter where the application services workload gets deployed within the overall
cluster. As long as the concurrent use of cores remains at or below the level of the active
subscription, no cores need to be added to a subscription.
Core/vCPU sizes of container instances are individually tracked, logged, and summed
together—even partial vCPU or subcore instances—for any given period of time. For billing
purposes, this summary is rounded up to the nearest whole selling unit, with a minimum
of 2 cores.
14
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
Only the sum of all instances used at any given time needs to be rounded up to a multiple
of SKU units. Any individual container instances can be measured in partial core sizes.
You may choose to set predefined limits on Red Hat Application Services workload sizing by limiting a
workload to specific nodes in a cluster. This approach may offer certain advantages to a customer, but
is not required by Red Hat for metering or counting purposes.
Note: If you purchase the same number of Red Hat Application Foundations cores as the number
existing in your Red Hat OpenShift cluster, for example, there is no need to count the number of
Red Hat Application Foundations cores running during any given period. The Red Hat OpenShift
cluster can have unlimited Red Hat Application Foundations use within this cluster. This is a primary
advantage of cluster editions, which equip you with the flexibility to deploy components across the
Red Hat OpenShift cluster as needed at any time.
Metering of Application Services use on Red Hat OpenShift
Red Hat Application Services subscriptions are license-only enforcement. Red Hat does not
deliver any tooling that restricts the deployment of application services products based on any
subscription limits.
On public clouds: Use guidelines
We highlighted earlier in this subscription guide that Red Hat Application Services subscription
licensing is very flexible. Subscriptions are licensed and supported across multiple OS and hardware
platforms and across any combination of on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud deployment
environments. This means that unit counting of cores and vCPUs on public clouds uses the
same approach as on-premise (noncontainer deployments) or on Red Hat OpenShift (container
deployments).
Cloud services
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS is a managed Red Hat OpenShift service deployed and
operated on AWS that allows customers to quickly and easily build, deploy, and manage Kubernetes
applications on a turnkey application platform in AWS Cloud. As a native AWS service, OpenShift
Service on AWS can be accessed on demand from the AWS console with hourly billing, a single invoice
for AWS deployments, integration with other AWS cloud-native services, and joint support from
Red Hat and AWS.
Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift
Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift provides highly available, fully managed Red Hat OpenShift
clusters on demand, which are monitored and operated jointly by Microsoft and Red Hat. Kubernetes
is at the core of Red Hat OpenShift, and Red Hat OpenShift adds valuable features to complement
Kubernetes, making it a turnkey container Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) with a significantly improved
developer and operator experience.
Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated
Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated is a Red Hat OpenShift cluster provided as a managed cloud service,
configured for high availability (HA), and dedicated to a single customer (single-tenant). OpenShift
Dedicated is managed by Red Hat Site Reliability Engineering, providing increased security and years
15
redhat.com Detail Red Hat Application Services subscription guide
of operational experience working with Red Hat OpenShift in both development and production.
OpenShift Dedicated also comes with award-winning 24x7 Red Hat Premium Support and a 99.95%
Service Level Agreement (SLA).
Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud
Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud is a managed offering to create your own Red Hat OpenShift cluster
of compute hosts to deploy and manage containerized applications on IBM Cloud. Red Hat OpenShift
on IBM Cloud provides intelligent scheduling, self-healing, horizontal scaling, service discovery and
load balancing, automated rollouts and rollbacks, and secret and configuration management for your
applications. Combined with an intuitive user experience, built-in security and isolation, and advanced
tools to secure, manage, and monitor your cluster workloads, you can rapidly deliver highly available
and security-hardened containerized applications in the public cloud.
Red Hat Application Services on OpenShift cloud services
You can mix your Application Services core entitlements—whether you purchased them as on-premise
or OpenShift cloud services. This applies to OpenShift Dedicated, Azure Red Hat OpenShift, Red Hat
OpenShift on IBM Cloud, and OpenShift Service on AWS. However, you are responsible for honoring
subscription entitlement limits associated with your Red Hat Application Services purchases.
Red Hat manages a repository of Application Services images that can be deployed on OpenShift
cloud services. If you want to use a version of an application services product that is not in this
repository—say, an older version of JBoss EAP—then you are responsible for any handling, installation,
or deployment of the application services software onto Red Hat OpenShift.
Red Hat products, services, and programs
Red Hat platform products
Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Red Hat Enterprise Linux has been foundational for the innovative
development of the entire Red Hat portfolio as an open source operating system (OS). It is the
foundation from which you can scale existing apps—and roll out emerging technologies—across
bare-metal, virtual, container, and all types of cloud environments.
Red Hat OpenShift. Built by open source leaders, Red Hat OpenShift is a leading enterprise
Kubernetes platform. Red Hat OpenShift provides a security-focused, consistent foundation to
deliver applications anywhere, with full-stack automated operations and streamlined developer
workflows. With Red Hat OpenShift, innovators can focus on what matters, stay competitive, and
outpace continually rising customer expectations.
Red Hat OpenShift includes everything you need for your hybrid cloud, enterprise container,
and Kubernetes development and deployments. It includes an enterprise-grade Linux operating
system, container runtime, networking, monitoring, container registry, authentication, and autho-
rization solutions. These components are tested together for unified operations on a complete
Kubernetes platform spanning every cloud.
Red Hat Services
Close the gap between what you know and what you need from architecture through adoption and
training. Our teams and resources help you get the most out of your technology investment. No
matter where you are in your journey with Red Hat products, we have offerings designed to help
you do more.
